Guidance in this Document
WCAG2ICT
This document provides informative guidance (guidance that is not normative and that does not set requirements) with regard to the interpretation and application of Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) to non-web information and communications technologies (ICT). This document is a Working Group Note (in contrast to WCAG 2.0, WCAG 2.1, and WCAG 2.2, which are W3C Recommendations). Specifically, this document provides informative guidance on applying WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2 Level A and AA success criteria to non-web ICT, specifically to non-web documents and software.
NOTE 1
Hereafter, the use of WCAG 2 means all WCAG 2.x versions — 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2.
This document is intended to help clarify how to use WCAG 2 to make non-web documents and software more accessible to people with disabilities. Addressing accessibility involves addressing the needs of people with auditory, cognitive, neurological, physical, speech, and visual impairments, as well as accessibility needs of people due to the effects of aging. Although WCAG 2 addresses some user needs for people with cognitive and learning disabilities as well as mental health related disabilities, following the WCAG supplement Making Content Usable for People with Cognitive and Learning Disabilities is recommended for non-web ICT to address the user needs of these groups. Developers are also encouraged to obtain testing input from persons with disabilities using applications and content.
Although this document covers a wide range of issues, it is not able to address all the needs of all people with disabilities. Since WCAG 2 was developed for the Web, addressing accessibility for non-web documents and software may involve requirements and considerations beyond those included in this document. Authors and developers are encouraged to seek relevant advice about current best practices to ensure that non-web documents and software are accessible, as much as possible, to people with disabilities. The following supporting documents contain helpful information to learn about the user needs, intent, and generalized implementation techniques to support a wider range of people with disabilities:
•	WCAG 2 Overview
•	Techniques for WCAG 2.2 [WCAG22-TECHS]
•	How to Meet WCAG (Quick Reference)
•	Additional Accessibility Guidelines Working Group - Publications
While WCAG 2 was designed to be technology-neutral, it assumes the presence of a “user agent” such as a browser, media player, or assistive technology as a means to access web content. As a result, the application of WCAG 2 to documents and software in non-web contexts necessitates some interpretation in order to determine how the intent of each WCAG 2 success criterion could be met in these different contexts of use. Therefore, the bulk of the Task Force's work involved evaluating how each WCAG 2 success criterion would apply in the context of non-web ICT, if it were applied to non-web ICT.
The Task Force found that the majority of success criteria from WCAG 2 can be applied to non-web documents and software with either no or minimal changes. Since many of the Level A and AA success criteria do not include any web-related terms, they apply directly as written and as described in the “Intent” sections from the Understanding WCAG 2.2 [UNDERSTANDING-WCAG22] resource. Additional notes were provided, as needed, to provide assistance in applying them to non-web documents and software.
Interpretation of Web Terminology in a Non-web Context
When certain Web-specific terms or phrases like “web page(s)” were used in success criteria, those were replaced with non-web terms or phrases like “non-web document(s) and software”. Additional notes were also provided to explain the terminology replacements.
A small number of success criteria are written to apply to “a set of web pages” or “multiple web pages” and depend upon all pages in the set to share some characteristic or behavior. Since the unit of conformance in WCAG 2 is a single web page, the task force agreed that the equivalent unit of conformance for non-web documents is a single document. It follows that an equivalent unit of evaluation for a “set of web pages” would be a “set of documents”. Since it isn't possible to unambiguously carve up non-web software into discrete pieces, a single “web page” was equated to a “software program” and a “set of web pages” was equated to a “set of software programs”.  Both of these terms are defined in the Key Terms section of this document. See “set of documents” and “set of software programs” to determine when a group of documents or pieces of software are considered a set.
NOTE
Sets of software that meet this definition appear to be extremely rare.
Not all success criteria have been fully adopted in all local regulations and legislation, and may not be applicable to all technologies. WCAG2ICT has been used in some regulations to determine whether or not to apply certain success criteria. For example, some local standards such as Section 508 in the US, and EN 301 549 in Europe, state that WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks, 2.4.5 Multiple Ways, 3.2.3 Consistent Navigation, and 3.2.4 Consistent Identification do not apply to non-Web documents and non-Web software. In addition, EN 301 549 also states that 2.4.2 Page Titled and 3.1.2 Language of Parts do not apply to non-Web software. In contrast, the U.S. Department of Justice regulation Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability; Accessibility of Web Information and Services of State and Local Government Entities (89 FR 31320, 24 April 2024) directs implementers to utilize the guidance in this document to determine the applicability and how to apply the requirements to mobile applications. Since this document does not specifically say which criteria can or should apply, those implementing this document (WCAG2ICT) should consider the applicability of individual success criteria to non-web documents and software.
The glossary terms were also reviewed and most of them applied to non-Web documents and software, as written. Some applied with additional notes or edits (largely related to phrases like “Web page(s)”), and a small number of terms were only used in Level AAA success criteria which are not addressed by the WCAG2ICT Note at this time.


WCAG2Mobile
This current document mirrors [link] Guidance on Applying WCAG 2.0 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT), which in turn mirrors WCAG's sections: Perceivable, Operable, Understandable, and Robust. WCAG2Mobile clarifies when and how WCAG2ICT interpreations of WCAG could be applied to native mobile applications instead of non-web documents and software. Some success criterion are applicable without modification and some are applicable with edits and/or notes. Glossary terms from both WCAG and WCAG2ICT have also reviewed. Level AAA success criteria are not addressed in this current [Working Group Note.] 
